Global warming is the process in which the Earth’s 
temperature starts increasing. This happens because 
industry, fossil fuels, agricultural processes caused 
by human, natural, and other gas emissions, this factors 
increase greenhouse gases, greenhouse gases are made up
of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. The greenhouse
gases stay in the atmosphere and prevent the suns warming 
rays to leave the Earth. So the sun’s warming rays stay inside 
the Earth increasing its average temperature. Global warming 
isn’t the end of the world, it’s just a natural process in 
which the Earth cleans or rinse organisms. Now a days the 
Automobiles, heat from homes and businesses, and factories 
are responsible for about 80% of today's carbon dioxide 
emissions, 25% of methane, and 20% of the nitrous oxide 
emissions. Agriculture, deforestation, landfills, industrial 
production, and mining also give carbon dioxide emissions but 
in a very minimal amount. Many Societies and communities in a 
lot of places are being changed and are suffering due to Temperature 
changes in different ways. The main effects are Famine, and extreme 
weather, these communities are loosing animal life and the polluting 
of many different bodies of water. Global warming causes all of these. 
During times of temperature changes the precipitation scatters around 
many parts, therefore making one place get all the rain while the other 
gets none, creating floods that destroy property and homes, and droughts 
that kill animals and even people. Also in some places like the Caribbean 
tropical storms get stronger and stronger; this happens because the higher 
temperatures evaporate more water making tropical storms bigger and stronger. 
Also many animal habitats are destroyed with temperature changes due to the 
extreme changes in weather and temperature and the destruction of habitats 
either done by the humans or by nature. Lastly many bodies of water become 
polluted thanks to all the gasses in the atmosphere that mix with the clouds 
and fall as acid rain polluting rivers, and lakes and killing many animals. 
All of theses factors change our daily life and can ruin whole species, 
and all of this is because of temperature changes. Many scientific methods 
of controlling or lowering the Earth’s temperature are being researched; 
these can also be called geoengineering. Geoengineering is a method in which 
scientists can change the levels of greenhouse gases directly or indirectly. 
Also there could be methods that prevent greenhouse gasses to be emitted. 
There have never been any geoengineering solutions done on a global scale 
since it has to be almost proof less. But there have been some ideas that 
are being use on a small scale like the iron fertilization; this is a process 
in which iron is injected into the oceans to speed up the reproduction of 
plankton which breath carbon dioxide and emit oxygen, this is one solution 
that seems to have the least side effects thanks to the reason I just presented 
and also due to that plankton are the base of many marine animals food chain. 
So this method is being widely researched to see if it can be done on a global 
scale. Not only is lowering the levels of gases in the air important, 
but also lowering the level of gases we emit, and there have been many 
scientific breakthroughs like solar energy or cars that run on helium, 
that in the future can maybe even save the planet. Many of the scientific 
applications proposed have both positive and side effects. 
This is a problem because we might create an invention that lowers 
carbon dioxide levels, but increases the hole in the ozone layer. 
So this makes scientists think extra careful on what they do because 
they have to make an application that has more positive effects than 
negative or hopefully no negative effects what so ever. Also you have 
to think not only of preventing negative effects on the environment 
but also social. For example if someone invents a pump that sucks all 
the carbon dioxide that was emitted, but it was to expensive it can cause 
economical issues to a lot of people especially the needy, and through this 
a chain reaction of events could even end up making the damage even greater. 
So in conclusion scientists have to think of a way that they can apply 
solutions to global warming but also lower other risks like poverty or 
economical downfall. Let’s not forget that science is the only factor in 
which we can rely to prevent the increase of global warming. There are many 
other important factors like political, religious, economical, and even ethical. 
These factors are important to keep in mind because these have as much influence 
over the concern as science. For example if finally a global scale geoengineering 
method is decided, and for many countries that will go against their religion 
than it won’t be a good method to be displayed on global scale. On the other 
hand they can also help and promote the application, so if a country is loosing 
most of its natural resources, they can give money and support to the scientific 
method so it can be easily accomplished to meet their need and of other countries. 